today I'm going to show you how to make
jelly donuts and in an effort to keep
the video short and pertinent to
whatever people are looking for I made a
separate video about how to make the
actual donuts and I'll put a link to
that in the description box in this
video I'm going to show you how I made
the jelly filling and filled the donuts
I tell you I tried a lot of donut
recipes until I found one that I was
happy with and the ones you see in the
background are not something that was
happy with so don't worry that's not the
donuts that you're going to see in the
other video I also tried making the
raspberry filling in two different ways
I'm going to show you both ways that I
did that with the first method I used a
bag of frozen raspberries and I put them
on a pot and I cooked them until they
were falling apart then I mashed them up
and then I put them through a strainer
and strained out the seeds then I added
some water to send down the juice and I
don't know how much juice I ended up
with here or how much water I added it's
liable to end up different for everybody
and then I sweetened debt and that was
1/3 cup of sugar there well it wasn't
sweet enough because there goes another
third cup of sugar the stove burner is
not on at this point this mixture is at
room temperature then I added clear gel
clear gel is a product that is used in
canning for making things like pie
fillings this is a modified corn starch
you might be able to use a regular corn
starch in this but it probably won't
hold up as well or as long as this clear
gel will you want to add this at a rate
of about two tablespoons per cup of
liquid stir it until the clear gel is
thoroughly dissolved and then turn on
the heat and bring this to a boil and it
will thicken and it'll be kind of lumpy
at first but don't worry it'll often out
and my battery died while I was making
this but here's how it turned out and
this version is a little thicker because
there's some of the pulp from the fruit
in it so
that's how you can make the jelly
filling from frozen berries you could
use fresh if you grow your own the next
time around I took the easy way out for
this version I used one cup of cranberry
raspberry juice and this way is a whole
lot cheaper because this whole bottle
was 250 and those frozen berries for 12
ounces was I think like three dollars
this is already sweetened so it doesn't
need all that much sugar I had a quarter
cup of sugar
then I added two tablespoons of clear
gel and once again this burner is not on
yet this mixture is cool then stir them
thoroughly until the clear gel is
dissolved and turn on the heat and bring
it to a boil
I also made an apple filling that was
pretty good with apple juice I just did
it the same way and I added some
cinnamon for flavoring I'm sure you
could use any type of juice you want for
this and you could probably can this as
well if you wanted to buy a whole bottle
of the cranberry raspberry juice make up
the entire batch and then can it the
same as you would for a pie filling that
has clear gel in it also the thickening
of clear gel is not dependent on having
sugar in the recipe so if you didn't
want to add any sugar at all you
wouldn't have to or you could add
Splenda if you wanted a diabetic version
of this filling as you can see once this
clear gel starts thickening it goes
pretty fast I tried to cook it for about
one minute and then I pulled it off of
the heat and let it cool I tell you I
absolutely love clear gel you could use
a similar recipe for making a fresh
strawberry pie or any type of fresh pies
you could use it for an ice cream
topping you could use it for all sorts
of things so once the filling was cool I
filled a pastry bag and I'm using a
decorator tip that is for filling things
like jelly doughnuts it's called a be
smart tip I inserted the tip into the
donut and I found that it helps if you
kind of dig around in there to make a
little bit of a hole then
just squeeze the jelly into the donut
and that's all there is to it so there
you go you have a homemade jelly donut
and they are bakery quality so that's
how I made jelly donuts they are very
light very soft they are very good
donuts hope it helps
you